0x08. Python - More Classes and Objects

Getters(also known as 'accessors') and setters (aka. 'mutators') are used in many object oriented programming languages to ensure the principle of data encapsulation. Data encapsulation - as we have learnt in our introduction on Object Oriented Programming of our tutorial - is seen as the bundling of data with the methods that operate on them. These methods are of course the getter for retrieving the data and the setter for changing the data. According to this principle, the attributes of a class are made private to hide and protect them.

Unfortunately, it is widespread belief that a proper Python class should encapsulate private attributes by using getters and setters. As soon as one of these programmers introduces a new attribute, he or she will make it a private variable and creates "automatically" a getter and a setter for this attribute. Such programmers may even use an editor or an IDE, which automatically creates getters and setters for all private attributes. These tools even warn the programmer if she or he uses a public attribute! Java programmers will wrinkle their brows, screw up their noses, or even scream with horror when they read the following: The Pythonic way to introduce attributes is to make them public.

Instance attributes are owned by the specific instances of a class. That is, for two different instances, the instance attributes are usually different. You should by now be familiar with this concept which we introduced in our previous chapter.

We can also define attributes at the class level. Class attributes are attributes which are owned by the class itself. They will be shared by all the instances of the class. Therefore they have the same value for every instance. We define class attributes outside all the methods, usually they are placed at the top, right below the class header.
